---
title: AI spurs reopenings
posted: '1-Oct-2024'
draft: true
---

# AI spurs reopening of retired US nuclear power plants

1-Oct-2024

When your own intelligence isn't getting the job done, a boost of artificial intelligence might do trick. In this case, the boost is more of a side-effect of energy-hungry AI. As computers are consuming exponentially growing amounts of electrical juice, data center operators look toward reliable sources of baseload energy.

So-called "renewables" may be wonderful when conditions are right. Bright sunshine at the right angle allows solar panels to flood the grid with electrons. Just the right amount of wind, not too slow and not too fast, and wind turbines might goose the grid for a time. Both of these sources are unreliable. At best we know not to expect much when the earth faces away from the sun, and in calm weather.

Nuclear fission is unaffected by the environment. We can make neutron flux on demand, non-stop, all day long for months on end. Nuclear power plants supply a steady baseload at levels to match consumer need. For a data center that needs energy all the time, nuclear is a great match.

Annoucements about reopening 3 Mile Island, other plants. Suggest more that could be reopened.

What is needed is a skilled workforce, strong supply of assembled fuel ready to split.

In the long run, techniques for reprocessing and reusing fuel, turning waste into productive fuel, buring fuel more completely, can make nuclear plants more efficient overall.
